Internationalized docs (#2772)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@internationalized/date/docs/index.mdx

{/* Copyright 2020 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. */}

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import {HeaderInfo, FunctionAPI, ClassAPI, TypeContext, InterfaceType, TypeLink, PageDescription} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@internationalized/date/package.json';

---
category: Date and Time
keywords: [date, time]
order: -1
title: Introduction
after_version: 3.0.0
---

# @internationalized/date

> The `@internationalized/date` package provides objects and functions for representing and manipulating dates and times in a locale aware manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@internationalized/date` package provides objects and functions for representing and manipulating dates and times in a locale-aware manner.
```

Reviewer: There is probably some of these in a bunch of places, might not be a big enough deal to change though.

* **Predictable** – The API is designed to resolve ambiguity in all operations explicitly, including time zone conversions, arithmetic involving daylight saving time, locale-specific queries, and more.
* **Small bundle size** – The entire library including all calendars and functions is 8 kB minified and compressed with Brotli.
* **Tree shakeable** – Only include the functions and calendar systems you need. For example, if you only use the Gregorian calendar and builtin `CalendarDate` methods, it's just 2.8 kB.

## Introduction

Dates and times are represented in many different ways by cultures around the world. This includes differences in calendar systems, time zones, daylight saving time rules, date and time formatting, weekday and weekend rules, and much more. When building applications that support users around the world, it is important to handle these aspects correctly for each locale. The `@internationalized/date` package provides a library of objects and functions to perform date and time related manipulation, queries, and conversions that work across locales and calendars.

> By default, JavaScript represents dates and times using the [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) object. However, `Date` has _many_ problems, including a very difficult to use API, lack of all internationalization support, and more. The [Temporal](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/index.html) proposal will eventually address this in the language, and `@internationalized/date` is heavily inspired by it. We hope to back the objects in this package with it once it is implemented in browsers.

Author: Pretty sure the builtin UIs aren't localized at all. For example, I switched Chrome to Thai and it still showed me dates in English in the US date format.

## Package structure

The `@internationalized/date` package includes the following object types:

* [Calendar](Calendar.html) – an interface which provides calendar conversion and metadata like number of days in month, and number of months in year. Many implementations are provided to support the most commonly used calendar systems.

> * [CalendarDate](CalendarDate.html) – an immutable object that stores a date associated with a particular calendar, without any time components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [CalendarDate](CalendarDate.html) – an immutable object that stores a date associated with a specific calendar system, without any time components.
```
just to match the language used in the other bullets

* [ZonedDateTime](ZonedDateTime.html) – an immutable object that represents a date and time in a specific time zone and calendar system.
* [Time](Time.html) – an immutable object that stores a clock time without any date components.

Each object includes methods to allow basic manipulation and conversion functionality, such as adding and subtracting durations, and formatting as an ISO 8601 string. Additional less commonly used functions can be imported from the `@internationalized/date` package, and passed a date object as a parameter. This includes functions to parse ISO 8601 strings, query properties such as day of week, convert between time zones and much more. See the documentation for each of the objects to learn more about the supported methods and functions.

This example constructs a `CalendarDate` object, manipulates it to get the start of the next week, and converts it to a string representation.

```tsx
import {CalendarDate, startOfWeek} from '@internationalized/date';

let date = new CalendarDate(2022, 2, 3);
date = date.add({weeks: 1});
date = startOfWeek(date, 'en-US');
date.toString(); // 2022-03-06

> ```

Author: Do we need anything else on this page? It's a little sparse...
